What's new in v3.0.7
--------------------

(released 17/07/2023)

Bug Fixes and Improvements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Fixed an issue that prevented telemetry data from being loaded when position
  data is missing (and vice versa) (#412)

- Fixed loading of Sprint Shootout results
  (#413, regression introduced in v3.0.3)

- Added driver color for Ricciardo at AlphaTauri (by @pesaventofilippo in #418)


What's new in v3.0.6
--------------------

(released 21/06/2023)

Release forces a cache update after updating from v3.0.4 and lower. Else, the
changes from v3.0.5 are not applied if the data is cached already.


What's new in v3.0.5
--------------------

(released 21/06/2023)

Bug Fixes and Improvements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Fixed an error when loading historic sessions (#400).

- Fixed an error where lap times are incorrectly not marked as 'Personal Best'.
  This also caused :meth:`~fastf1.core.Laps.pick_fastest` to return incorrect
  laps. (#403)



What's new in v3.0.4
--------------------

(released 03/06/2023)

Bug Fixes and Improvements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Added missing color for compound "TEST-UNKNOWN" (by @Casper-Guo)

- Bumped minimum version requirement for dependency 'timple'



What's new in v3.0.3
--------------------

(released 19/05/2023)

Bug Fixes and Improvements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Fixed incorrectly formatted color codes for tyre compound colors.
  (by @Casper-Guo)

- Fixed a bug that prevented the calculation of results for Qualifying-like
  sessions (for example Sprint Shootout) that only occurred on Pandas v1.5.3
  and older.



What's new in v3.0.2
--------------------

(released 09/05/2023)

Bug Fixes and Improvements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Improved support for Sprint Shootout sessions and added session results for
  these. (by @mdsakalu)

- Improved exception handling on various internal functions



What's new in v3.0.1
--------------------

(released 07/05/2023)

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- fixed a bug that prevented the use of the livetiming client from the
  commandline



What's new in v3.0.0
--------------------

(released 02/05/2023)

New Features
^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Caching is now enabled by default and does not need to be manually configured
  anymore. The cache defaults to using operating system specific default
  locations that are intended for storing temporary files.
  The cache directory can either be changed from within a script or by setting
  and environemnt variable to define an alternative cache loaction.
  See: :class:`fastf1.Cache`
  (by @oscr)

- Full support for the Ergast F1 API has now been added, replacing the very
  limited functionality that was previously available. Features of the new
  implementation:

  - all endpoints supported
  - all query filters supported
  - can return data as Pandas DataFrames or raw
  - can do automatic type casting to the best suited data type
  - uses caching
  - supports result limits and pagination
  - enforces rate limits defined by Ergast (with cached requests not counting
    towards the rate limits)

  See: :ref:`ergast`

- The livetiming client now supports all current versions of Python. The limit
  to version 3.9 and lower no longer exists for this feature. A big thank you
  to @oscr for integrating the problematic python-signalr-client dependency
  into FastF1 and fixing the problems that existed with Python 3.10 and higher.

- The log level for all parts of FastF1 can now be easily configured using
  :func:`fastf1.set_log_level`. The logging system in FastF1 has been
  reimplemented to make debugging easier. See :ref:`logging`

- A partial last lap will now be added to :class:`fastf1.core.Laps` when a
  driver retires on track. This especially will make it easier to plot
  telemetry data of such a lap as there is now a corresponding
  :class:`fastf1.core.Lap`.

- When loaded, race control messages will now be parsed to find which laps
  were deleted. The :class:`fastf1.core.Laps` object gets two new columns
  'Deleted' and 'DeletedReason' that indicate that a lap was deleted and why
  it was deleted.

- The intended total lap count of a race or sprint session is now available
  through :attr:`fastf1.core.Session.total_laps`.
  (by @Toskosz)

- Added method :func:`fastf1.core.Laps.split_qualifying_sessions` to split
  laps for a qualifying session into Q1, Q2 and Q3.

- The F1 timing data API has been added as an additional fallback backend for
  retrieving event schedule data (#260).

- In the event schedule, ``Session*Date`` will now be a timezone-aware local
  timestamp (previously: local, but not timezone-aware). Additionally, for each
  session there now exists a non-timezone aware UTC timestamp in
  ``Session*DateUtc`` (#253). Timezone information and UTC timestamps are only
  available when using one of ``'fastf1'`` or ``'f1timing'`` as backend.

- Added ``strict_search`` parameter to :func:`fastf1.get_event` that disables
  fuzzy matching for exact matching of session names. (by @Neron-png)

- Added track status data as :attr:`fastf1.core.Session.track_status`.
  (by @SpyrosKoun)

- Added function :func:`fastf1.core.Telemetry.add_track_status` for adding
  track status information to telemetry data. (by @SpyrosKoun))

- Added function :func:`fastf1.core.Laps.pick_lap` for conveniently selecting
  specific laps by their lap number. (by @TracingInsights)

- Added a custom ``__repr__`` to :class:`fastf1.core.Session` for a more
  meaningful string representation of the object. Now, information about the
  year, round, event name and session name will be shown. (by @Casper-Guo)

- FastF1 can now be installed using conda-forge. (by @daylinmorgan)

- Added ``HeadshotURL`` and ``CountryCode`` to
  :class:`fastf1.core.SessionResults` and :class:`fastf1.core.DriverResult`.
  (by @lmontrieux)

- Tyre compound colors are now available through
  :attr:`fastf1.plotting.COMPOUND_COLORS`. (by @Caspar-Guo)

- The cache now supports "offline mode" where only cached responses are
  returned and no actual requests are sent even if an internet connection
  is available. Offline mode can be enabled using
  :func:`fastf1.Cache.offline_mode`.

- For race sessions, the previously missing first lap time is now automatically
  added from Ergast (#293).

- For race sessions, lap start and end times are now correctly aligned between
  drivers. Previously, there was a small difference in the order of a few tens
  of milliseconds.

- Add current ``Position`` at the end of each lap to :class:`fastf1.core.Laps`
  and :class:`fastf1.core.Lap` (#295).

- Add official classification as ``ClassifiedPosition`` for Races and Sprints
  to :class:`fastf1.core.SessionResults` and :class:`fastf1.core.DriverResult`.
  The ``ClassifiedPosition`` lists the finishing position for drivers who are
  officially classified or a reason for not being classified, for example if
  a driver retired, was disqualified or similar. (#294)


Other Changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- All columns in :class:`fastf1.core.Laps` that were previously of type ``int``
  are now ``float`` to support ``NaN`` values.


Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- The API parser will now correctly detect when lap times were deleted and
  will not mark these lap times as personal best time anymore if the deleted
  lap was a drivers fastest lap. (#165)

- Enforce creation of :class:`fastf1.core.Laps` with default columns and
  default dtypes (when created through :func:`fastf1.core.Session.load`)
  (#310).

- Fixed a bug where FastF1 Series-like objects where returned instead of a
  native pandas ``Series`` when getting a single column of a FastF1
  DataFrame-like object by slicing vertically.

- Improve loading of session results when F1 data is partially incomplete.

- Improved type hints throughout FastF1 (by @transorsmth)

- Enforce default column dtypes when creating a new :class:`fastf1.core.Laps`
  object. (#310)

- Fixed an issues were dtypes were always enforced when a new
  :class:`fastf1.core.SessionResults` object was created, even if
  ``force_default_cols=False``.

- Fixed incorrectly set ``_internal_names`` for objects inheriting from
  DataFrame or Series. This potentially caused incorrect warnings about
  incorrectly creating new columns.

- Added missing ``__finalize__`` calls for subclasses of DataFrames and Series
  that resulted in metadata being lost.

- Fixed incorrectly spelled driver name for Hulkenberg. (by @lmontrieux)

- Documentation improvements. (by @lmontrieux)

- Fixed a bug where specific temporary error responses from Ergast where
  cached. This then required the cache to be cleared so that the specific
  API request would work again.

- Fixed a bug where lap times and sector times were missing if the previous
  value was exactly equal

- Fixed a bug in the API parser that created ghost laps with no real data and
  no driver


Backwards Incompatible API Changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- :func:`fastf1.utils.to_datetime` and :func:`fastf1.utils.to_timedelta` will
  now return ``None`` instead of raising an exception when a string cannot
  be parsed.

- The name of a Sprint session will now always be 'Sprint'. Previously, it was
  'Sprint Qualifying' for the 2021 seasons and 'Sprint' for all subsequent
  seasons.


Removals
^^^^^^^^

The following deprecated API elements have been removed:

- Properties :attr:`fastf1.events.Event.name`,
  :attr:`fastf1.events.Event.date` and :attr:`fastf1.events.Event.gp`

- Creating an :class:`fastf1.events.Event` object by not specifying a the
  ``identifier`` argument for :func:`fastf1.get_session` and
  :func:`fastf1.events.get_session` is no longer supported.

- The argument ``event`` is no longer supported by
  :func:`fastf1.get_session` and :func:`fastf1.events.get_session` and
  replaced by ``identifier``.

- Functions :func:`fastf1.core.get_session` (use
  :func:`fastf1.get_session`) and :func:`fastf1.core.get_round`
  (no replacement) have been removed.

- Methods :func:`fastf1.core.Session.load_laps` and
  :func:`fastf1.core.Session.load_telemetry` have been removed,

- Property :attr:`fastf1.core.Session.weekend` has been removed

- Properties :attr:`fastf1.core.DriverResult.name`,
  :attr:`fastf1.core.DriverResult.familyname`,
  :attr:`fastf1.core.DriverResult.grid`,
  :attr:`fastf1.core.DriverResult.position`,
  :attr:`fastf1.core.DriverResult.team` have been removed

- :class:`fastf1.core.Driver` has been removed

- :class:`fastf1.core.Weekend` has been removed

- :func:`fastf1.ergast.fetch_weekend` has been removed


Performance Improvements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- performance improvement in :func:``fastf1.api.car_data``
  and :func:``fastf1.api.pos_data``


Deprecations
^^^^^^^^^^^^

- :mod:`fastf1.api` will be considered private in future releases and may be
  removed or changed. Please do not use functionality from :mod:`fastf1.api`.
  If you currently require functionality from there, please open an issue
  on Github with details about what you require and why.

- :mod:`fastf1.utils.delta_time` is considered deprecated and will be modified or
  removed in a future release because it has a tendency to give inaccurate
  results.
