What's new in v3.4.4
--------------------

(released 17/11/2024)

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- Use a custom user agent when requesting event schedule data from Github to
  prevent the request from being blocked in some environments. (see #656)


What's new in v3.4.3
--------------------

(released 03/11/2024)

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- Added a workaround to fix an issue that made it impossible to load any data
  for the Qualifying of the 2024 Sao Paulo Grand Prix (closes #652).


What's new in v3.4.2
--------------------

(released 27/10/2024)

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- Fixed a bug that prevented getting the team color for "RB" in some
  situations. (by @Casper-Guo) (#645)

- Improved some warning messages related to team name matching in the plotting
  submodule. (by @Casper-Guo) (#645)


What's new in v3.4.1
--------------------

(released 16/10/2024)

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- Fixed a bug that caused qualifying laps to be split incorrectly into Q1, Q2
  and Q3 laps. Mainly outlaps were incorrectly assigned to the previous
  session. (closes #605)

- Fixed errors in tyre data (compound, tyre age, ...). (Massive thanks to
  user "TheBobba" on the MultiViewer Discord for noticing and helping me with
  this!)

- Added error handling for a rare error caused by downgrading the
  ``requests-cache`` dependency or by reusing the cache with various versions
  of the dependency.


Other Changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Bumped some DeprecationWarnings to FutureWarnings to make them more visible
  to users.


What's new in v3.4.0
--------------------

(released 26/07/2024)


New Features
^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Completely reimplemented the :mod:`fastf1.plotting` module. The new module
  provides a more flexible and powerful API for creating custom plots. This
  is an overview of the relevant new features and changes:

    - Driver and team names, abbreviations and colors are now supported for
      all seasons since 2018 instead of only for the most recent season.

    - Driver changes and test drivers running in free practice session are now
      supported automatically and do no longer require an update of FastF1.

    - Users can now choose between the "offcial" F1 color map and the color map
      that was already used previously by FastF1.

    - Driver specific colors are deprecated. Users are encouraged to use more
      visually distinct plot styling options instead to differentiate between
      drivers of the same team. The new
      :func:`~fastf1.plotting.get_driver_style` function can be used to easily
      get driver specific styling options.

    - Users can override team colors and short name constants on a per-session
      basis.

    - The API has been improved to be more consistent and easier to use.

- Added support for a fallback mirror for the F1 livetiming API. If the primary
  API is unavailable, FastF1 will automatically switch to the fallback mirror
  and continue to work without any user intervention.
  This feature is experimental and for now provided without any guarantees.

- Added a warning that informs users when event, driver or team names are
  fuzzy matched. (by @Casper-Guo) (#574)

- Improved fuzzy matching of event names to give better matching results. (by
  @Casper-Guo) (#579)

- Added support for Numpy v2.0.

- The SignalRClient can now be started when an async event loop is already
  running by awaiting the new
  :func:`fastf1.livetiming.client.SignalRClient.async_start` coroutine. This
  enables usage in newer versions of Juypter Notebooks, for example.

- Set a default connection timeout of five seconds for all requests to the
  Ergast API. This should prevent long data loading times when the API is
  unresponsive.


Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- Drivers that crashed on the very first lap are now assigned ``NaN`` as their
  position, ensuring correct positions throughout the field at then end of the
  first lap. (by @AND2797) (#595)

- Fixed a bug that prevented loading of any data when driver information was
  unavailable from the F1 livetiming API.

- Fixed a bug in the client side rate limiting that allowed higher rates than
  intended. This may have caused the client to be temporarily blocked by the
  server.


Deprecations
^^^^^^^^^^^^

- The following module level properties of :mod:`fastf1.plotting` have been
  deprecated:
  :attr:`~fastf1.plotting.COMPOUND_COLORS`,
  :attr:`~fastf1.plotting.DRIVER_COLORS`,
  :attr:`~fastf1.plotting.DRIVER_TRANSLATE`,
  :attr:`~fastf1.plotting.TEAM_COLORS`,
  :attr:`~fastf1.plotting.TEAM_TRANSLATE`,
  :attr:`~fastf1.plotting.COLOR_PALETTE`


- The following functions in :mod:`fastf1.plotting` have been deprecated:
  :func:`~fastf1.plotting.driver_color`,
  :func:`~fastf1.plotting.team_color`,
  :func:`~fastf1.plotting.lapnumber_axis`

- The argument ``misc_mpl_mods`` of function :func:`~fastf1.plotting.setup_mpl`
  is deprecated and will be removed in the future without replacement for its
  functionality.

- The argument ``color_scheme`` of function :func:`~fastf1.plotting.setup_mpl`
  will default to ``None`` in the future, meaning that FastF1's default color
  scheme will need to be enabled explicitly.


Increased minimum versions for dependencies
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- The new minimum version of Python is 3.9. Support for Python 3.8 is dropped.
- The minimum versions for the following dependencies have been increased:

  - numpy to >=1.23.1
  - scipy to >=1.8.1