What's new in v3.5.1
--------------------

(released 13/03/2025)


New Features
^^^^^^^^^^^^

- :func:`~fastf1.plotting.get_driver_style` now replaces the magic ``'auto'``
  color keyword recursively. This allows for more complex plotting styles, for
  example when using the Plotly library. (by @Casper-Guo) (#701)


Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- Missing drivers are now only added to session results based on data from
  Jolpica-F1 (formerly Ergast), when the session type is fully supported by
  the API. This fixes cases where drivers were incorrectly added in practice
  sessions, for example. (by @Casper-Guo) (#699)



What's new in v3.5.0
--------------------

(released 01/03/2025)


New Features
^^^^^^^^^^^^

- The backend for the Ergast API is now changed to its successor Jolpica-F1
  (see https://github.com/jolpica/jolpica-f1 ) to ensure continued support for
  the 2025 season and later seasons.

- Added team colors for the 2025 season. (by @Casper-Guo) (#690)


Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- Incorrect and inconsistent data types in various places have been fixed. The
  dtypes of all DataFrames after data loading now always match the dtypes that
  are defined in the documentation. Some dtypes may have changed as a result
  of this fix.

- Fixed lap time alignment failures in some edge cases.


Backwards Incompatible Changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- ``Laps.pick_fastest()`` will now return ``None`` if no fastest lap exists, as
  announced previously.
  Previously, an empty ``Lap`` object was returned.


Maintenance
^^^^^^^^^^^

- Addressed upcoming changes in pandas and fixed a related deprecation warning
  caused by implicit type coercion. (by @Casper-Guo) (#676, #682)

- Temporarily pinned ``websockets`` to version 14 or older to prevent issues
  with live timing recording.
