What's new in v3.6.0
--------------------

(released 08/07/2025)


New Features
^^^^^^^^^^^^

- The number of laps that each driver completed in a race or sprint session is
  now available in :class:`~fastf1.core.SessionResults`, accessible through
  :attr:`~fastf1.core.Session.results`, in a new ``Laps`` column. (#766)

- :func:`fastf1.get_events_remaining` now correctly considers the current time
  of day and the starting time of the last session of an event to determine
  the remaining events. (#750) (by @VLADOZXD)

- Preliminary Race and Sprint results are now calculated from timing data when
  no official results data is available from Jolpica-F1.
  (#737) (by @Casper-Guo)


Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- Fixed a bug where incorrect positions were calculated for all drivers at the
  end of the first lap in the 2025 British GP (#765)

- Added additional logic to detect and correct incorrect tyre information in
  the source data of the 2025 Australian GP Race and the 2025 Miami GP
  Sprint (#746)

- The API parser will now calculate missing lap times from existing sector
  times if possible when the source data explicitly indicates a missing lap
  time by providing an empty lap time object. This fixes data errors caused by
  transponder issues with RUS car at the 2025 Bahrain GP. (#740)

- The team name matching used with the plotting functionality now additionally
  considers the team short names to fix problems with the short "RB F1 Team"
  name. (#726) (by @Casper-Guo)


Removals
^^^^^^^^

According to the deprecation timeline, the following functionality has been
removed after it was marked as deprecated in v3.4.0.

- The following module level properties of :mod:`fastf1.plotting` have been
  removed:
  ``COMPOUND_COLORS``
  ``DRIVER_COLORS``
  ``DRIVER_TRANSLATE``
  ``TEAM_COLORS``
  ``TEAM_TRANSLATE``
  ``COLOR_PALETTE``

- The following functions in :mod:`fastf1.plotting` have been removed:
  ``driver_color()``
  ``team_color()``
  ``lapnumber_axis()``

- The argument ``misc_mpl_mods`` of function :func:`~fastf1.plotting.setup_mpl`
  has been removed without replacement for its functionality.

- The argument ``color_scheme`` of function :func:`~fastf1.plotting.setup_mpl`
  now defaults to ``None``.


Maintenance
^^^^^^^^^^^

- Addressed upcoming changes in pandas and fixed a related deprecation warning
  caused by implicit type coercion. (by @Casper-Guo) (#727)


Miscellaneous
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Updated the "Who can still win the drivers WDC" example to use the 2025
  season. (#763) (by @faustocalvinio)

- Added a new "Season Summary Visualization" example to the gallery. (#661)
  (by @eatwhatyoukill and @Casper-Guo)

- Documentation improvements (by @Casper-Guo)
